Generated Program Style Guide
=============================

Sean Kelleher
-------------

### Principles

There are a few principles that should back every project generated by bake.

#### Compiles

With the necessary tools installed, the project should compile once generated
without any prior modification or configuration.

#### Easy to test

Every project should be generated with testing in mind. For example,
command-line utilities should be generated with white-box and black-box testing
of each of its components, functional programs should have property tests, and
GUI programs should be set up with window tests.

#### Written in Conventional Style

The code in the project should be written in an idiomatic and conventional style
which is typical for that language. The final say on style will be left to the
discretion of the maintainer of bake.

#### Written in Accessible Style

The code in the project should be clear and easy for anyone with familiarity
with the language to understand. In particular, it should be written in such a
way that the new owner of the project is able to start adding to the project
right away without changing the initial code, say for the purpose of making the
initial codebase easier to read.

#### Should be Platform Independent

The generated code should compile and run on any platform that meets the basic
build requirements for that language and project type. The generated program
shouldn't act differently for different platforms without reason, such as the
program being unable to run otherwise.

### General Project Types

Each language will have different types of projects that can be generated by
that language: C will have command-line programs, Java will have GUI projects,
C# will have .NET libraries, and so on. There are some projects types that are
common to most languages however, and some elements of these are discussed
below.

The following guidelines should, in general, be applied to all types of projects
across all languages.

+ The program should use a function defined in a separate module
+ The program should be written in a style conforming to the general style
  guidelines of that language

The following program templates named in the following sections should be
included in each language that supports them.

#### Command-line Programs (command)

+ Example should take command-line arguments, including
    + verbose flag (-v)
    + help flag (-h), which prints the program's usage

#### GUI Programs (gui)

#### Library Programs (library)

+ Example should export at least one function
